\documentclass{irsarticle}

\usepackage{url}
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}


\begin{document}
\title{\bf Recuperación de información geográfica}
\author{Jorge J. Morgado Vega\qquad Roberto García Rodríguez}
\date{}
\maketitle

\institution{Facultad de Matemática y computación, Universidad de la Habana}

\begin{abstract}
	Resumen del artículo
\end{abstract}

\keywords{recuperación de información, información geográfica}

\newpage
\tableofcontents
\newpage

\input{characteristics.tex}
\input{architecture.tex}
\input{evaluation.tex}
\input{applications.tex}
\input{pros_and_cons.tex}
\input{challenges.tex}


\begin{thebibliography}{}

\bibitem{chang2016}
Chang, K. T. (2016). Geographic information system. International Encyclopedia of Geography: People, the Earth, Environment and Technology: People, the Earth, Environment and Technology, 1-9.

\bibitem{gey2007}
Gey, F., Larson, R., Sanderson, M., Bischoff, K., Mandl, T., Womser-Hacker, C.,
... \& Ferro, N. (2007). Challenges to evaluation of multilingual geographic
information retrieval in GeoCLEF. In quot; In Workshop on Evaluation of
Information Access (EVIA) May 15 (Tokyo Japan May 15 2007).

\bibitem{jones2008}
Jones, C. B., \& Purves, R. S. (2008). Geographical information retrieval.
International Journal of Geographical Information Science, 22(3), 219-228.

\bibitem{martins2005}
Martins, B., Silva, M. J., \& Chaves, M. S. (2005, November). Challenges and
resources for evaluating geographical IR. In Proceedings of the 2005 workshop
on Geographic Information Retrieval (pp. 65-69).

\bibitem{purves2011}
Purves, R., \& Jones, C. (2011). Geographic information retrieval. SIGSPATIAL
Special, 3(2), 2-4.

\bibitem{purves2018}
Purves, R. S., Clough, P., Jones, C. B., Hall, M. H., \& Murdock, V. (2018).
Geographic information retrieval: Progress and challenges in spatial search of
text. Foundations and Trends in Information Retrieval, 12(2-3), 164-318.

\bibitem{purves2014}
Purves, R. (2014). Geographic information retrieval: are we making progress. In
NCGIA specialist meeting on spatial search (pp. 1-6).

\bibitem{mandl2008}
Mandl, T., Gey, F., Nunzio, G. D., Ferro, N., Sanderson, M., Santos, D., \&
Womser-Hacker, C. (2008). An evaluation resource for Geographical Information
Retrieval. In quot; In Proceedings of the 6 th International Conference on
Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008)(Marrakech 28-30 May 2008)
European Language Resources Association (ELRA). European Language Resources
Association (ELRA).

\bibitem{buscaldi2009}
Buscaldi, D. (2009, July). Toponym ambiguity in geographical information
retrieval. In Proceedings of the 32nd international acm sigir conference on
research and development in information retrieval (pp. 847-847).

\bibitem{cai2011}
Cai, G. (2011). Relevance ranking in geographical information retrieval.
SIGSPATIAL Special, 3(2), 33-36.

\bibitem{purves2004}
Purves, R., \& Jones, C. (2004, December). Workshop on geographic information
retrieval, SIGIR 2004. In ACM SIGIR Forum (Vol. 38, No. 2, pp. 53-56). New
York, NY, USA: ACM.

\bibitem{kumar2011}
Kumar, C. (2011, August). Relevance and ranking in geographic information
retrieval. In Fourth BCS-IRSG Symposium on Future Directions in Information
Access (FDIA 2011) 4 (pp. 2-7).

\bibitem{janowicz2011}
Janowicz, K., Raubal, M., \& Kuhn, W. (2011). The semantics of similarity in
geographic information retrieval. Journal of Spatial Information Science, (2),
29-57.

\bibitem{larson2004sep}
Larson, R. R., \& Frontiera, P. (2004, September). Spatial ranking methods for
geographic information retrieval (GIR) in digital libraries. In International
Conference on Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries (pp. 45-56). Springer,
Berlin, Heidelberg.

\bibitem{larson2004jul}
Larson, R. R., \& Frontiera, P. (2004, July). Ranking and representation for
geographic information retrieval. In Extended abstract in SIGIR 2004 Workshop
on Geographic Information Retrieval.

\bibitem{li1994}
Li, R. (1994). Data structures and application issues in 3-D geographic
information systems. Geomatica, 48(3), 209-224.

\bibitem{deAndrade2014}
de Andrade, F. G., de Souza Baptista, C., \& Davis, C. A. (2014). Improving
geographic information retrieval in spatial data infrastructures.
GeoInformatica, 18(4), 793-818.

\bibitem{abdelmoty2005}
Abdelmoty, A. I., Smart, P. D., Jones, C. B., Fu, G., \& Finch, D. (2005). A
critical evaluation of ontology languages for geographic information retrieval
on the Internet. Journal of Visual Languages \& Computing, 16(4), 331-358.

\bibitem{brown1999}
Brown, I. (1999). Developing a virtual reality user interface (VRUI) for
geographic information retrieval on the Internet. Transactions in GIS, 3(3),
207-220.

\bibitem{martins2007}
Martins, B., Borbinha, J., Pedrosa, G., Gil, J., \& Freire, N. (2007, November).
Geographically-aware information retrieval for collections of digitized
historical maps. In Proceedings of the 4th ACM Workshop on Geographical
information Retrieval (pp. 39-42).

\bibitem{laMancha}
Castilla-La Mancha. (2021, October 26). Wikipedia. Retrieved October 30, 2021,
from \url{https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Castilla-La_Mancha#Toponimia}.

\end{thebibliography}

\end{document}
